---
title: AI Art - Is Doomsday Near? 
description: My take on AI Generated Art
author: modhurima
date: 2024-08-30 16:00:00 +0800
categories: [Artificial Intelligence]

pin: true
comments: true
# media_subpath: '/posts/20180809'
---

Human creativity is facing the most formidable challenge ever, and once again the challenge has been posed by humans themselves.

AI is getting better and better each day, thanks to us for feeding them huge datasets to learn from and predict an outcome. What we initially thought would make our lives easier is apparently getting more powerful than us in some aspects and now our creativity is in question. However, it is saving a ton of time for content creators and businesses which would otherwise be put into doing tedious tasks of writing blogs, and posts, or creating digital art for their target audiences. 

Artists out there are not happy with this new trend though, especially when the AI-generated art is not similar to anything previously done and the prompt-giver is credited to be the proprietor of that piece of art. Sounds unfair, right? Artists put hours of thought and skills into forming a single masterpiece whereas this little machine can produce the so-called masterpiece in 20 seconds using a single prompt. 

Will AI art permanently replace real art produced by real artists? I don’t think so. Art created in real-time requires attention to detail, involves emotion, and most importantly, is born out of sheer creativity. Real art has texture: a pastel color will create an entirely different texture to that of water or acrylic color and so on.